[Applause]  foreign  [Applause]  [Applause]  foreign  members of Congress I have the high  privilege and the distinct honor of  presenting to you his Excellency  Baltimore zielinski president of the  Ukraine  yes  thank you so much  that  thank you it's too much for me  all these or our great people thank you  so much  The Americans  in all states  cities and communities  all those who value freedom and justice  who cheers it is strongly as we  ukrainians in all our cities in each and  every family I hope my words of respect  and gratitude resonate in each American  Heart  madam  vice president  I thank you for your efforts in helping  Ukraine  Madam speaker  you bravely visited Ukraine during the  full-fledged War  thank you very much great honor  thank you  great privilege to be here  Dr members of the Congress  representatives of both parties  who also visited Keith  esteemed congressman and senators from  both parties  who will visit Ukraine  I'm sure in the future dear  representatives of diaspora  [Applause]  present in this chamber and spread  across the country they are journalists  it's a great honor for me to be at the  U.S Congress and speak to you and all  Americans  against  All Odds  and doom and gloom  scenarios Ukraine didn't fall  Ukraine is alive  and Kicking  thank you  and it gives me good reason to share  with you our first  first joint Victory we defeated Russia  in the battle for minds of the world  we have no fear nor should anyone in the  world have it  Ukraine's gained this Victory and it  gives us courage which inspires the  entire world  Americans gained this Victory and that's  why you have succeeded in uniting the  global Community to protect freedom  and international law  Europeans gained this Victory and that's  why Europe is now stronger and more  independent than never  the Russian tyranny  has lost control over us  [Applause]  and it will never influence our minds  again yet we have to do whatever it  takes to ensure that countries of the  global South also gain such victory  I know one more I think very important  thing  the Russians will stand a chance to be  free only when  they defeat the Kremlin in their minds  yet  the battle continues and we have to  defeat the Kremlin on the battlefield  yes  these battle is not only for the  territory for this or another part of  Europe the battle is not only for Life  freedom and security of ukrainians or  any other nation which Russia attempts  to conquer  this struggle will Define in what world  our children and grandchildren will live  and then they are children and  grandchildren it will define whether it  will be a democracy of ukrainians and  for Americans for all  this battle cannot be frozen  or postponed it cannot be  ignored hoping that the ocean or  something else will provide a protection  from the United States to China  from Europe to Latin America and from  Africa to Australia the world is to  interconnected and interdependent to  allow someone to stay aside and at the  same time to feel safe when such a  battle continues  our two Nations  are allies in this battle  and next year will be a turning point I  know it the point when Ukrainian courage  and American resolve must guarantee the  future of our common Freedom the freedom  of people who stand for their values  foreign  [Applause]  ladies and gentlemen Americans yesterday  before coming  here  to Washington DC I was at the front line  in our stronghold in the east of Ukraine  in the dunbas  the Russian military and missionaries  have been taking back non-stop since May  there have been taking a day and night  but Bahamut stands  last year  last year 70 000 people lived there in  Batman in this city and now only few  civilians stay every inch of that land  is sucked in blood roaring guns sound  every hour trenches in the donbass  changed hands several times a day  in Fierce combat and even hand fighting  but the Ukrainian donbass stands  Russians  Russians use everything everything they  have against bhagavat and other  our beautiful cities  the occupiers have a significant  advantage in artillery they have an  advantage in ammunition they have much  more missiles and planes  than we ever had as it's true but our  Defense Forces stand  [Applause]  [Music]  [Music]  and we  end and we all are proud of them  the Russians tactic is primitive they  burn down and destroy everything they  see  they send thugs to the front lines they  sent convicts to the war  they threw everything against us similar  to the other tyranny which is in the  Battle of the Bulge  through everything it had again the Free  World just like the brave American  soldiers which held their lines and  fought back Hitler's forces during the  Christmas of 1944 Brave Ukrainian  soldiers are doing the same to Putin's  forces this Christmas  Ukraine  Ukraine holds its lands and Will Never  Surrender  so so here is the front line The Tyranny  which has no lack of Cruelty against the  lives of free people and your support is  crucial not just to stand in such fight  but to get to the turning point to win  on the battlefield  we have artillery yes  thank you  we have it is it enough honestly not  really  to ensure  embarkment is not just a stronghold that  holds back the Russian army but for the  Russian army to completely pull out more  cannons and shells are needed if so just  like the Battle of Saratoga the fight  for bhagmud will change the trajectory  of our war for independence and for  freedom  if your Patriots  stop  the Russian Terror against our cities it  will let Ukrainian Petros work to the  full to defend our freedom  when Russia  when Russia cannot reach our cities but  it's artillery it tries to destroy them  with missile attacks more than that  Russia found an ally in this  in this genocidal policy Iran  Iranian deadly drones sent to Russia in  hundreds and hundreds became a threat to  our critical infrastructure  that is how one terrorist has found the  other  it is just a matter of time when they  will strike against your other allies if  we do not stop them now we must do it  I believe  I believe there should be no taboos  between us in our alliance Ukraine never  asked the American soldiers to fight on  our land instead of us  I assure you that Ukrainian soldiers can  perfectly operate American tanks  and plans themselves  Financial Financial system is also  critically important and I would like to  thank you thank you very much thank you  for both Financial packages you have  already provided us with and the ones  you may be willing to decide on your  money is not charity  an investment in the global security and  democracy that we handle in the most  responsible way  foreign  [Music]  Russia could stop its aggression  really if it wanted to but you can speed  up our victory  I know it  and eat and it will prove to any  potential aggressor that no one can  succeeded in breaking national borders  no one committing atrocities and  reigning our people against their will  it would be Nave to wait for steps  towards peace from Russia which enjoys  being a terrorist state  Russians are still poisoned by the  Kremlin  the restoration of international legal  order is our Joint Task we need peace  yes Ukraine has already offered  proposals which I just discussed with  President Biden our peace formula 10  points which should and must be  implemented for our joint security  guaranteed for decades ahead and the  summit which can be held I'm glad to  shred that President Biden supported our  peace initiative today each of you  ladies and gentlemen can assist in the  implementation to ensure that Americans  leadership remains solid  my camera  and bipartisan  thank you  [Applause]  [Music]  you can strengthen sanctions to make  Russia feel how ruinous its aggression  truly is  it is in your power really to help us  bring to Justice everyone who started  this unprovoked and criminal War let's  do it  that terrorists  let the terrorists stay be held  responsible for its Terror and  aggression and compensate all losses  done by this war let the world see that  the United States are here  ladies and gentlemen  ladies and gentlemen Americans in two  days  we will  celebrate  Christmas  maybe candle it  not because it's more romantic now  but because there will not be  will be no electricity  Millions won't have neither hitting nor  running water  all of these will be the result of  Russian missile and drone attacks on our  energy infrastructure  but we do not complain  we do not judge and compare whose life  is easier  your well-being is the product  of your National Security  the result of your struggle for  Independence and your many victories  we ukrainians will also go through our  war of independence and freedom with  dignity and success  foreign  [Applause]  Christmas  celebrate Christmas and even if there is  no electricity the light of our faith in  ourselves will not be put out  if Russian if Russian missiles attack us  will do our best to protect ourselves  if they attack us with Iranian drones  and our people will have to go to bomb  shelters on Christmas Eve ukrainians  will still sit down at the Holiday table  and cheer up each other  and we don't don't have to know every  every once wish as we know that all of  us millions of ukrainians wish the same  victory only victory  we already built strong Ukraine with  strong people strong Army Strong  institutions together with you we  develop strong security guarantees for  our country and for entire Europe and  the world together with you and also  together with you will put in  Place everyone who will defy freedom put  in  this will be the basis to protect  democracy in Europe and the world over  now on the special  Christmas time I want to thank you  all of you  I think every American family  which cherishes the warmth of its home  and Wishes the same warmth to other  people  I think President Biden and both parties  at the Senate and the house for your  inavailable assistance  I think your cities and your citizens  who supported Ukraine this year who  hosted our ukrainians our people  who waved our national flags who acted  to help us thank thank you all from  everyone who is now at the front line  from everyone who is evading victory  standing here today I recall the words  of the President Franklin  Delano Roosevelt  which has I think so good for this  moment  the American people  in their righteous might  will win through to Absolute victory  the Ukrainian people will win too  absolutely  foreign  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  depends on us on Ukrainian Armed Forces  yet so much depends on the world so much  in the world depends on you  when I was embarkment yesterday our Our  Heroes  gave me the flag  the Battle Flag the flag of those who  defend Ukraine Europe and the world at  the cost of their lives they asked me to  bring this flag to you to the U.S  Congress to members of the House of  Representatives and Senators whose  decisions can save millions of people  so let these decisions be taken let this  flag stay with you lettuce and gentlemen  this flag is a symbol of our victory in  this war  We Stand we fight and we will win  because we are united Ukraine America  and the entire free world  [Applause]  [Music]  [Music]  thank you  [Music]  [Applause]  [Music]  [Applause]  just one thing  if I can the the last thing thank you so  much may God protect our brave troops  and citizens may God forever bless the  United States of America merry Christmas  and happy Victorious New Year  thank you  [Music]  thank you so much okay  [Applause]  yes there we go  thank you  [Applause]  this flag was flown over the capitol  today in honor of the president's visit  they  all right  [Music]  [Applause]